README.md, before:

DictionaryBundle
================
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/KnpLabs/DictionaryBundle.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/KnpLabs/DictionaryBundle)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/KnpLabs/DictionaryBundle/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/KnpLabs/DictionaryBundle/?branch=master)

Are you often tired to repeat static choices like gender or civility in your apps ?

## Requirements

- PHP >= 7.2
- Symfony 3.4, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 or 5.*

## Installation

Run the following command:
```bash
composer require knplabs/dictionary-bundle
```
Register the bundle in ``app/AppKernel.php``

```php
$bundles = array(
    // ...
    new Knp\DictionaryBundle\KnpDictionaryBundle(),
);
```

## Maintainers

You can ping us if need some reviews/comments/help:

 - [@AntoineLelaisant](https://github.com/AntoineLelaisant)
 - [@PedroTroller](https://github.com/PedroTroller)

## Basic usage

Define dictionaries in your config.yml file:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    my_dictionary: # your dictionary name
      - Foo        # your dictionary content
      - Bar
      - Baz
```
You will be able to retreive it through the dictionaries collection service:
```php
$dictionaries = $container->get(\Knp\DictionaryBundle\Dictionary\Collection::class);
$dictionary   = $dictionaries['my_dictionary'];
```
### Dictionary form type

Now, use them in your forms:

```php
use Knp\DictionaryBundle\Form\Type\DictionaryType;

public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
{
    $builder
        ->add('civility', DictionaryType::class, array(
            'name' => 'my_dictionary'
        ))
    ;
}
```
The dictionary form type extends the [symfony's choice type](http://symfony.com/fr/doc/current/reference/forms/types/choice.html) and its options.

### Validation constraint

You can also use the constraint for validation. The `value` has to be set.

```php
use Knp\DictionaryBundle\Validator\Constraints\Dictionary;

class User
{
    /**
     * @ORM\Column
     * @Dictionary(name="my_dictionary")
     */
    private $civility;
}
```

## Advanced usage
You can specify the indexation mode of each dictionary
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    my_dictionary:      # your dictionary name
      type: 'key_value' # your dictionary type
      content:          # your dictionary content
        "foo": "foo_value"
        "bar": "bar_value"
        "baz": "baz_value"
```
### Available types
- `value` (default) : Natural indexation
- `value_as_key`: Keys are defined from their value
- `key_value`: Define your own keys
- `callable`: Build a dictionary from a callable

### Callable dictionary
You can create a callable dictionary:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    my_callable_dictionary:     # your dictionary name
      type: 'callable'          # your dictionary type
      service: 'app.service.id' # a valid service from your application
      method: 'getSomething'    # the method name to execute
```
Callable dictionaries are loaded with a lazy strategy. It means that the callable
will not be called if you do not use the dictionary.

### Iterator based dictionary
You can create a dictionary from an iterator:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    my_iterator_dictionary:     # your dictionary name
      type: 'iterator'          # your dictionary type
      service: 'app.service.id' # a valid service from your application
```
Iterator based dictionaries are loaded with a lazy strategy. It means that the 
iterator will not be fetched if you do not use the dictionary.

### Combined dictionary

You can combine multiple dictionaries into a single one:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    payment_mode:
      type: key_value
      content:
        card: "credit card"
        none: "none"

    extra_payment_mode:
      type: key_value
      content:
        bank_transfert: "Bank transfert"
        other: "Other"

    combined_payment_mode:
      type: combined
      dictionaries:
        - payment_mode
        - extra_payment_mode
```
Now you have 3 dictionaries, `payment_mode` and `extra_payment_mode` contain 
their own values but `combined_payment_mode` contains all the values of the previous ones.

### Extended dictionary

You can create an extended dictionary:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    europe:
      type: 'key_value'
      content:
        fr: France
        de: Germany

    world:
      type: 'key_value'
      extends: europe
      content:
        us: USA
        ca: Canada
```
The dictionary `world` will now contain its own values in addition
to the `europe` values.

**Note**: You must define the initial dictionary **BEFORE** the extended one.

## Transformers
For now, this bundle is only able to resolve your **class constants**:

```yaml
my_dictionary:
  - MyClass::MY_CONSTANT
  - Foo
  - Bar
```
You want to add other kinds of transformations for your dictionary values ?
Feel free to create your own transformer !

### Add your own transformers

Create your class that implements [TransformerInterface](src/Knp/DictionaryBundle/Dictionary/ValueTransformer/TransformerInterface.php).
Load your transformer and tag it as `knp_dictionary.value_transformer`.
```yaml
services:
  App\My\Transformer:
    tags:
      - knp_dictionary.value_transformer
```

## Use your dictionary in twig

You can also use your dictionary in your Twig templates via calling `dictionary` function (or filter).

```twig
{% for example in dictionary('examples') %}
    {{ example }}
{% endfor %}
```

But you can also access directly to a value by using the same function (or filter)

```twig
{{ 'my_key'|dictionary('dictionary_name') }}
```

## Faker provider

The KnpDictionaryBundle comes with a [faker provider](https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker) that can be used to provide a random entry from a dictionary.

### Alice

To register the provider in [nelmio/alice](https://github.com/nelmio/alice), you can follow the [official documentation](https://github.com/nelmio/alice/blob/master/doc/customizing-data-generation.md#add-a-custom-faker-provider-class)

or ...

if you use the awesome [knplabs/rad-fixtures-load](https://github.com/knplabs/rad-fixtures-load) library, the dictionary provider will be automaticaly loaded for you :)

```yaml
App\Entity\User:
  john_doe:
    firstname: John
    latnale: Doe
    city: <dictionary('cities')>
```

## Create your own dictionary implementation

### Dictionary

Your dictionary implementation must implements the interface [Dictionary](src/Knp/DictionaryBundle/Dictionary.php).

### Dictionary Factory

You must create a dictionary factory that will be responsible to instanciate your dictionary.

```yaml
services:
  App\Dictionary\Factory\MyCustomFactory:
    tags:
      - knp_dictionary.factory
```
## Tests

### phpspec

```bash
$ composer install
$ vendor/bin/phpspec run
```

### php-cs-fixer

```bash
$ composer install
$ vendor/bin/php-cs-fixer fix
```

### phpstan

First [install phive](https://github.com/phar-io/phive#getting-phive).

Then...

```bash
$ phive install
$ tools/phpstan process
```

Commit message:

Version v3.2 (#122)
* Prepare v3.2

* Normalize application (rectorphp, composer-normalize, php-cs-fixer)

* fix: make DataCollector compatible with Symfony 5

* fix: profiler error with dictionary generator in data collector

* chore: implement twig linter

* fix: twig template error

* fix: cs fixing regression

* fix: circleci config

* refactor: src/Knp/DictionaryBundle/Resources/views/layout.html.twig

Co-Authored-By: Antoine Lelaisant <antoine.lelaisant@knplabs.com>

* test: refactor circleci configuration (#139)

* feat: remove support of Symfony 4.3 and 5.0 (#140)

* feat: remove support of PHP 7.2 (#141)

* chore: remove not maintained suggestion (#144)

* test: switch to the new Faker (#145)

* feat: add support of php 8.0 (#142)

* feat: enable Symfony DIC autoconfiguration for dictionaries and factories(#146)

* fix: documentation

* test: migrate to knplabs/phpstan docker image (#148)

* test: enable phpspec coverage (#147)

Co-authored-by: Antoine Lelaisant <antoine.lelaisant@knplabs.com>

README.md, after:

DictionaryBundle
================
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/KnpLabs/DictionaryBundle.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/KnpLabs/DictionaryBundle)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/KnpLabs/DictionaryBundle/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/KnpLabs/DictionaryBundle/?branch=master)

Are you often tired to repeat static choices like gender or civility in your apps ?

## Requirements

- PHP >= 7.3
- Symfony 4.4 or >= 5.1

## Installation

Run the following command:
```bash
composer require knplabs/dictionary-bundle
```
Register the bundle in ``app/AppKernel.php``

```php
$bundles = array(
    // ...
    new Knp\DictionaryBundle\KnpDictionaryBundle(),
);
```

## Maintainers

You can ping us if need some reviews/comments/help:

 - [@AntoineLelaisant](https://github.com/AntoineLelaisant)
 - [@PedroTroller](https://github.com/PedroTroller)

## Basic usage

Define dictionaries in your config.yml file:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    my_dictionary: # your dictionary name
      - Foo        # your dictionary content
      - Bar
      - Baz
```
You will be able to retreive it through the dictionaries collection service:
```php
$dictionaries = $container->get(\Knp\DictionaryBundle\Dictionary\Collection::class);
$dictionary   = $dictionaries['my_dictionary'];
```
### Dictionary form type

Now, use them in your forms:

```php
use Knp\DictionaryBundle\Form\Type\DictionaryType;

public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
{
    $builder
        ->add('civility', DictionaryType::class, array(
            'name' => 'my_dictionary'
        ))
    ;
}
```
The dictionary form type extends the [symfony's choice type](http://symfony.com/fr/doc/current/reference/forms/types/choice.html) and its options.

### Validation constraint

You can also use the constraint for validation. The `value` has to be set.

```php
use Knp\DictionaryBundle\Validator\Constraints\Dictionary;

class User
{
    /**
     * @ORM\Column
     * @Dictionary(name="my_dictionary")
     */
    private $civility;
}
```

## Advanced usage
You can specify the indexation mode of each dictionary
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    my_dictionary:      # your dictionary name
      type: 'key_value' # your dictionary type
      content:          # your dictionary content
        "foo": "foo_value"
        "bar": "bar_value"
        "baz": "baz_value"
```
### Available types
- `value` (default) : Natural indexation
- `value_as_key`: Keys are defined from their value
- `key_value`: Define your own keys
- `callable`: Build a dictionary from a callable

### Callable dictionary
You can create a callable dictionary:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    my_callable_dictionary:     # your dictionary name
      type: 'callable'          # your dictionary type
      service: 'app.service.id' # a valid service from your application
      method: 'getSomething'    # the method name to execute
```
Callable dictionaries are loaded with a lazy strategy. It means that the callable
will not be called if you do not use the dictionary.

### Iterator based dictionary
You can create a dictionary from an iterator:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    my_iterator_dictionary:     # your dictionary name
      type: 'iterator'          # your dictionary type
      service: 'app.service.id' # a valid service from your application
```
Iterator based dictionaries are loaded with a lazy strategy. It means that the 
iterator will not be fetched if you do not use the dictionary.

### Combined dictionary

You can combine multiple dictionaries into a single one:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    payment_mode:
      type: key_value
      content:
        card: "credit card"
        none: "none"

    extra_payment_mode:
      type: key_value
      content:
        bank_transfert: "Bank transfert"
        other: "Other"

    combined_payment_mode:
      type: combined
      dictionaries:
        - payment_mode
        - extra_payment_mode
```
Now you have 3 dictionaries, `payment_mode` and `extra_payment_mode` contain 
their own values but `combined_payment_mode` contains all the values of the previous ones.

### Extended dictionary

You can create an extended dictionary:
```yaml
knp_dictionary:
  dictionaries:
    europe:
      type: 'key_value'
      content:
        fr: France
        de: Germany

    world:
      type: 'key_value'
      extends: europe
      content:
        us: USA
        ca: Canada
```
The dictionary `world` will now contain its own values in addition
to the `europe` values.

**Note**: You must define the initial dictionary **BEFORE** the extended one.

## Transformers
For now, this bundle is only able to resolve your **class constants**:

```yaml
my_dictionary:
  - MyClass::MY_CONSTANT
  - Foo
  - Bar
```
You want to add other kinds of transformations for your dictionary values ?
Feel free to create your own transformer !

### Add your own transformers

Create your class that implements [TransformerInterface](src/Knp/DictionaryBundle/Dictionary/ValueTransformer/TransformerInterface.php).
Load your transformer and tag it as `knp_dictionary.value_transformer`.
```yaml
services:
  App\My\Transformer:
    tags:
      - knp_dictionary.value_transformer
```

## Use your dictionary in twig

You can also use your dictionary in your Twig templates via calling `dictionary` function (or filter).

```twig
{% for example in dictionary('examples') %}
    {{ example }}
{% endfor %}
```

But you can also access directly to a value by using the same function (or filter)

```twig
{{ 'my_key'|dictionary('dictionary_name') }}
```

## Faker provider

The KnpDictionaryBundle comes with a [faker provider](https://github.com/FakerPHP/Faker) that can be used to provide a random entry from a dictionary.

### Alice

To register the provider in [nelmio/alice](https://github.com/nelmio/alice), you can follow the [official documentation](https://github.com/nelmio/alice/blob/master/doc/customizing-data-generation.md#add-a-custom-faker-provider-class)

```yaml
App\Entity\User:
  john_doe:
    firstname: John
    latnale: Doe
    city: <dictionary('cities')>
```

## Create your own dictionary implementation

### Dictionary

Your dictionary implementation must implements the interface [Dictionary](src/Knp/DictionaryBundle/Dictionary.php).

It is automaticaly registered with the `autoconfigure: true` DIC feature.

Else you can register it by your self: 

```yaml
services:
  App\Dictionary\MyCustomDictionary:
    tags:
      - knp_dictionary.dictionary
```

### Dictionary Factory

You must create a dictionary factory that will be responsible to instanciate your dictionary.

It is automaticaly registered with the `autoconfigure: true` DIC feature.

Else you can register it by your self: 

```yaml
services:
  App\Dictionary\Factory\MyCustomFactory:
    tags:
      - knp_dictionary.factory
```
## Tests

### phpspec

```bash
$ composer install
$ vendor/bin/phpspec run
```

### php-cs-fixer

```bash
$ composer install
$ vendor/bin/php-cs-fixer fix
```

### phpstan

First [install phive](https://github.com/phar-io/phive#getting-phive).

Then...

```bash
$ phive install
$ tools/phpstan process
```

### rector (*optional*)

```bash
rector process --set php70 --set php71 --set php72 --set code-quality --set coding-style --set symfony34 --set twig240 --set psr-4 --set solid src/ spec/
```
